So let's move over to the filters screen and they are right now I just have my my dummy content the
filter screen and that's of course not what I want there.
Instead there I want to have some some text at the top actually where I say available filters slash
restrictions or something like this where I want to point at a certain style object with Styles let's
name a title maybe because it will be our main title here and below that I want to have my different
filters.
Now how does a filter look like we need some some switch some checkbox something like this that allows
us to turn a filter on and off and a label for that.
Now that means that probably a view makes sense to group label and that switch to gather and position
them side by side probably.
And I'll give a view as style of filter container SOMETHING LIKE THAT AND IN THERE AS A Z I want to
have a text with a label for example say gluten free there.
And next to that a switch and thankfully React Native has a built in switch its named switch the switch
component renders a nice switch which we can use.
So here we can just use switch like this and render this onto the screen we'll need to configure this
but to get started we can use it like this now for some basic styling for the title and the filter container
here.
Let's go down here.
Let's add filter container and title here and the title is pretty straightforward there.
I want to what use font family open Sands bold and a font size of 20 to a margin in all directions of
20 and also set text aligned to center to center it is the overall screen by the way should not center
items on the main axes anymore.
So vertical centering should no longer happen.
And for that we can simply get rid of justify content center and filter container on the other hand
should position to switch and the text next to each other in a row.
So here we can set flex direction to row justified content maybe by adding space around and a line items
on the cross axis in the centers so that it's centered vertically and let's have a look at that if we
safeties and we go to the filter screen does what we got here we got a switch and as you see right now
it's always jumping back.
That's something we'll take to take care about in a second but generally we see it and here on filters
for Android we got an android switch which also jumps back but which conveniently is already pre styled
for Android.
So that's actually another component built into React Native which has a default look for Android so
that's not too bad.
One thing I want to change is for the filter container I want to assign a fixed width of let's say 80
percent and actually change this year to space between not space around because I think that looks a
bit nicer now.
Yeah definitely also on Android and now we can make sure that this switch actually works and that it
doesn't jump back when we trigger it for that you need to know that for switches you manually need to
manage their state and that's actually not new in react it's often the case that for these input components
you need to store what the user enters and feet step back into the component to reflect that in the
updated UI.
And we do this with state management.
So we import to use state hook from react so that we can manage state here in this functional component.
And then here I'll have my gluten state and I'll name this is gluten free and set is gluten free.
Use state initially that's false.
And now on that switch here
you have a value property that's a property built into the built in switch where I feed and is gluten
free.
So just takes a boolean which indicates whether that switch is rendered as active or not active so if
it's marked as checked or not checked I should say and you have a on value change property which takes
a function that fired whenever the user clicks.
That's which this function here gets the new value.
So if the switch was in the false mode and the uncheck mode the new value will be true and the other
way round of course and we can use that to update our state and said is gluten free to the new value
and since we also feed this state back in now are a switch should be changeable and should stay in that
updated mode.
So now we have a look at this now we can really toggle that switch and that's a improvement.
The styling of the switch is not what I want however it uses some default color.
Of course I would want to use my colors that I use in the app all the time.
And for Dad we can import our colors content of course of course.
So import colors from constants colors and to switch has no property that helps us with styling here
we can add track color which allows us to customize to colors for dead switch.
So the background color so on and track color takes an object as a value hence we have an object which
we pass here to this dynamic binding where you can set a background color for default state.
So if it's inactive it's If it's unchecked in there I'm fine with the default actually just looks good
to me.
But you can also set one for the true case which is the case that it is checked.
And there I want to use colors primary color and of course you can take any color you wish.
And we do that and I go back to filters now we use our own color here which of course is more in line
with the rest of this application.
And obviously this will all the work here on Android we can also set the thumb color which is well the
color of this thumb here which is green here and Android and this just takes a string a color string
so a hex code for example in there we can also appointed color as primary color if we do that when I
was.
Now it has to has this color
and the same on Android
of course and I guess that doesn't really look that good there.
I would like to keep the default and the solution is pretty simple.
We can again use to Google platform API import this and then here when assigning a thumb color I check
for platform OS equal to Android in which case I want to use the primary color for my thumb.
Otherwise I'll set this to an empty string which means it will use the default which is white on ISIS.
And with that here we have to say look as before which I like on ISIS but of course you can also find
changes to your requirements.
And on Android we will still have to look we saw before I go to the filter screen here which looks good
there as well so that's does switch and how we can add it.
Now we just need to repeat this for all our other switches as well.
So all the other filters I mean so I can copy that view and add it again for elected office three or
four weeks.
But if you find yourself copy and pasting over and over again as we're trying to do it here.
That's always a good case for creating a separate component or a function that renders this reusable
code.
And here again I will create a separate component in that same file because I really only use it in
there.
Again you could also go for a separate file if you wanted to.
I'll name it filter switch and this gets some props.
And in this component in the end I return this code we set up a forward with the view and the text and
so on.
And of course now the text needs to be dynamic there we could set this to props label and it's totally
up to you what you choose here because you will be the one passing in the props values later anyways
and of course here what happens on value change and what you pass to value all that differs.
So here this should be props state for example or props value or whatever you want to use.
And here for on value change I'll simply point Ed props on change for example.
But again all these props names of course are totally up to you because you'll be the one using that
component and we will actually use it now here like this is self closing component where we now can
set a label because I'm expecting a label prop here.
If you named it differently you need to name it differently.
Here of course and the label of course is gluten free because I'm about to replace this switch here.
Then we need to pass in a state because I added a state prop here to manage my value if you named it
differently you need You need to name a different date on there as well.
The euro point it is gluten free at my state.
And on change needs to be provided.
Because here I'm using the on change prop to bind it to on value change.
So this should point at a function and of course here I will simply keep this function near and since
I just use on change here to forward it to on value change we get the new value argument here as well.
Now we can get rid of this view down there and just use our filter switch component and now simply repeat
that which is of course way easier.
So now here we can all have lactose free vegan and vegetarian and we need to add three new states now
so here let me replicate does we have is lactose free and set is lactose free.
Here we have is vegan and set is vegan.
And here we have is that JIT Terry and
and said is the shirt.
Terry and now we just need to make sure we use the states in the right places.
So for a second filter switch where we have the lactose free filter i.e. forward.
He is lactose free state and I update set is lactose free of course for the weekend switch I forward
is vegan and we updated with set is vegan and for vegetarian we forward is vegetarian and we update
set is vegetarian like this
OK.
That should be it if we now saved us we should have a filter screen with our different filters which
we can set independently because we're having independent states I think would it be nice to have some
spacing between these rows so let's implement this on our filter container here we can simply add a
margin vertical of let's say 10 and this should at 50 maybe a bit more and this should make sure that
we have some spacing there.
Yeah and this looks quite nice.